[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of
neon.pdf
a nonprofit Prof accountable for usdv a
community-based native Omni chain stable
coin topics of discussion included
Matthew's background in identity
management and compliance software
solutions for financial institutions and
how that carries over into his work with
the verified USD Foundation Building
alongside and within other decentralized
ecosystems the types of assets that are
backing the usdv stable coin growth
since the protocols sof launch in Q4 of
2023 and so much more just a reminder
nothing said on this podcast is a
solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
and that nothing should be taken as
Financial advice the host or guests May
hold tokens discussed and any given
episode and feel free to head over to
the neon today.com Webb page to learn
more about a disclaimer for more
information on the tokens we hold with
that said I really enjoyed this
conversation with Matthew and I hope you
enjoy the conversation too today we're
joined by Matthew commins the president
of the verified USD Foundation verified
USD Foundation is a nonprofit
accountable for the usdv token which is
a community-based native Omni chain
stable coin how are you doing today
Matthew I'm doing great Dylan glad to be
here I'm super excited to have you here
um stable coins in particularly the past
quarter or two have kind of become an
interest of mine or a focal point as
we've seen the kind of uh quote unquote
uh biggest used stable coins being
Circle and tether uh showing prominence
particularly during the recent uh bare
Market of the past couple years it seems
from the outside that a lot of folks
have trusted these two entities as the
market share for users has grown so I
kind of want to kick off the
conversation with a higher level
philosophical kind of perspective that
you bring to the table and I just want
to know what do you as the president of
the verified USD Foundation how do you
view the opportunities and strengths for
quote unquote um non-traditional stable
coins how do you view uh these
opportunities in the coming years um and
the opportunities that they'll have to
compete with the market share that
Circle and tether have today yeah I'd be
happy to answer that Dylan uh I think
there's a few different areas where
actually applying some new technology
can bring us towards more of a next
gener generation stable coin and that's
really what we're trying to do here at
at usdv we see ourselves kind of at the
Vanguard of this um you know certainly
the stable coins that have been out
there for the past you know five or so
years um have have done a lot to get on
multiple chains to get out there in the
public to you know build perspective on
what a stable coin is when we look at
the future I think one of the biggest
questions is uh do we want the future to
be set up by really centralized entities
issu stable coins or do we want to have
a technology architecture that is really
all about decentralization and not
having one entity just at the center of
uh of the ecosystem so right now we have
two big players right there there are
others out there you know there's PayPal
coming up with their their PUSD and and
and a few others um but as you say
largely uh there's been these two firms
that have dominated it to date yeah
awesome thank you so much for for kind
of providing uh your perspective and
also to help us jump into this
conversation um I'm actually really
fascinated by your background and the
places you've been and and where where
you're today where you're at today and
where you're going to be going it seems
like you kind of got bit by the
blockchain crypto bug in 2015 so I'm
curious to hear when was the first time
you heard about crypto or blockchain or
Bitcoin or ethereum or any of these
things and what were your initial
thoughts on this digital asset class
yeah you know I had read about it and I
don't know the ft and other types things
I'd seen it out there in in the Years uh
you know around the the white paper and
and the coming of shortly thereafter uh
it was actually at a um at a an Harvard
alumni event in London where I met this
guy Michael Manelli who is now the Lord
mayor of London and we had a chat and he
actually walked through with me uh
really some of the details of of what
comes behind here you know the the idea
of uh public private key Pairs and the
idea of of chaining proofs and so forth
and um I immediately saw that this could
be much more than than just Bitcoin I
saw Bitcoin itself as something kind of
interesting I wanted to learn more about
but that started off a journey of just
diving into it going to meetups and
eventually founding um my own um Company
Cambridge blockchain in 2015 yeah I
can't wait to dig into Cambridge but I
do kind of want to hear what was that
aha moment that led you to saying okay I
need a I need to get into the space and
I want to found Cambridge systems yeah
so the uh Tom moment was was really
trying to think through like how would
you devise a business strategy in a
decentralized world you know when you
when you think about this everything
that I had learned in in school and
looking at case studies and so forth
assumes you just have centralized
companies controlling resources and I
was really intrigued by the idea of an
open architecture and what that means
like how do you win in something like
this um you know it ties in a lot with
areas like open source and different
types of governance models and so forth
but uh you know really start going down
the rabbit hole and uh it's been a
learning experience you know there's
definitely been things in my thought
process that have evolved over time uh
you know from back in 2013 2014 2015
when I kind of got started here yeah so
your your path is similar to mine and
the fact that we were in a different
career a different industry and then we
decided to pull the rip cord and and go
into crypto and blockchain so there must
have been kind of a powerful draw to
take you away from the oil power and
utilities markets into the crypto space
so having um brought that experience in
the power and utility sector um you've
also been able to during your time in
the crypto space work alongside big
fintech names and trafy names like
PayPal and Goldman Sachs for example so
when you're taking this experience of
working with larger scale kind of
corporate type entities and then also
working with big fintech and trafi from
your experience what are some of the
things that these folks really care
about when they start exploring the web
3 in crypto space yeah well you know I
will say that it's kind of taken a
little bit longer for some of these big
Enterprises to uh you know get moving in
the space uh than than some of us had
hoped you know I think back when we were
starting exploring this you know had no
problems getting meetings with the most
senior people at the biggest banks back
in you know 2014 2015 everyone was very
curious but um you know we were trying
to start a small software company at the
MIT media lab and and actually sell
something but a lot of what we were
seeing across the table was more of what
I would call a tech Safari they were
like get these blockchain guys in here
and have them you know present to the
board and you know we'll we'll see what
uh what they can do um and you know they
they have made uh they have made
progress you know even um you know even
JP Morgan who uh you know you'll see
Jamie Diamond uh you know talking with
Elizabeth Warren about the government
and so forth they have continued to
invest they've continued to make
progress and uh you know maybe not as
fast as we would have hoped but this is
definitely something that the trafi
space sees as as real sees as something
they want to get involved with you can
see it in you know the Bitcoin and ether
ETFs and so forth um but they're still
kind of figuring out exactly how to
engage with it um and I think you're
seeing that today um so you know it
makes sense to engage with uh with
Regulators it makes sense to engage with
the big players um but really you know
where my career is evolved is to say
that the growth is in in the
permissionless space the growth is in
the l1s the l2s uh something that is
borderless and um you know we we'll
interface with the big players uh we
where appropriate um but we're not going
to sort of stag gate our development
based on that yeah and so you mentioned
MIT and I believe in digging through
your background you were also an Adjunct
professor at one of the universities in
the Northeast so I guess I'm just kind
of curious to hear what are and and if
you're still involved with the
universities um this is maybe a two-part
question if you're still involved in the
universities what is the Outlook that um
students and professors have in this
field and if you're not involved with
the universities what's kind of the
regional Outlook that you're viewing um
amongst your peers who are building uh
in the Northeast sure yeah uh you know
the the university space is kind of
interesting um there's uh you know like
like in anything there there are waves
of of interest that you see uh when I
first was interested in starting
Cambridge blockchain I actually was
looking at um you know doing some work
at UH at Harvard where i' I'd gone to
school and so forth and I tried to pitch
them on this whole blockchain research
project and back then I just got a lot
of stares people didn't quite know what
it was and I I didn't really get as much
traction so with that I said well look
if I want to pursue this I got to just
start it myself and and I pursued that I
think you've seen uh a lot of student
interest come around and there there's a
huge amount of innovation that that
comes out of there you know living in
the Boston Cambridge area there's
there's many great universities here and
it it's um it's excellent to to have
that uh more recently I've been involved
on some of the fundamental research side
really digging into zero knowledge
technology um and other things so I
think for certain types of application
especially Advanced cryptography and so
forth you've got to be in with uh you
know those those math departments people
studying graph Theory all kinds of
things like that and it's got to be
wherever they are Boston's great but you
know people from Hebrew University CU
you know where wherever it is um you got
to be uh you got to be focused on it and
go to where the talent is yeah and uh so
you you you co-founded Cambridge
blockchain and apologies for misnaming
that earlier in our conversation um so
so Cambridge blockchain um initially
focused on developing blockchainbased
identity manage and compliance software
solutions for financial institutions so
you you also just mentioned zero
knowledge proofs and things of this
nature so what were kind of the initial
solutions that Cambridge blockchain was
building out for your clients and how
might that have evolved and grown over
the years when you were in charge of
that entity sure absolutely um so early
on we decided uh you know my co-founders
and I decided to focus on the
intersection of blockchain and digital
identity and Cambridge blockchain was
our effort to do that we focused
initially on sharing identity and kyc
data across groups of banks early on we
were part of the New York fintech
Innovation lab we did uh you know early
engagements with banks like City and JP
Morgan we ended up getting more traction
over in Europe because right around that
time Europe was launching gdpr uh the
general data protection regulation so
this idea of users controlling their own
identity and data was something that uh
was just easier to sell across the
Atlantic so moved over to France we
deployed with our partner in Luxembourg
a company called Lux trust which is a
Consortium of banks together with the
Luxembourg government and uh yeah it's
really all about creating a ky passport
uh the ability to on board with one
institution take your credentials to
another we then became PayPal's first
investment in the crypto space and uh
and took that from there um so it's been
uh it's been a journey and um you know I
think that also taught me that working
with some of these big institutions
setting up Consortium Enterprise
blockchains that is a lot of potential
there there's going to there's going to
be growth there but it is also something
that can be a bit slower than the the
rapid pace of innovation that see on the
permissionless side so I've kind of
shifted my career from more of the
Enterprise to more of the uh the open
architectures nice so I'm curious to
hear then it you you guys tuned in to
the kind of market demand that Europe
offered or the European Banks when they
were seeking these Solutions are you
feeling that that sort of yearn and
drive that European institutions had
those those few years ago are you
feeling that sort of I guess Vibe might
be the best word to use or that sort of
drive here in the states or is it a sort
of different kind of um conversation
you're having with Stateside based
financial institutions well you know
what's so fascinating about the
blockchain space is that unlike almost
any other Market it is just a truly
Global Market um it is just open you
want to get the best talent you can from
wherever you know if you're looking at
the code contributors to a repo it
really doesn't matter where they're from
it's do they have The credibility um and
uh is it something that that the
community is going to trust so that's uh
you know as someone who studied
international business even in undergrad
this is like the most international
space that you can be and it it's
exciting to see teams collaborate around
the world I mean right now at the
verified USD Foundation we have the
support of Matrix port with a lot of
activity in Singapore and Hong Kong
layer zero who is uh based in Vancouver
but they have people all around the
world included in Europe and and
elsewhere and we're looking at
opportunities you know really everywhere
in principle I mean certainly some
markets will uh will adapt more than
others you know I'd say probably the
biggest area of of difference between
the Us and other places is really more
on the regulatory side that there is
just more regulatory certainty in other
jurisdictions that certainly includes
stable coins but it also includes crypto
as well I mean whether it's you're
talking about ma in in um in Europe or
the Singapore Bill around stable coin or
or other types of things um Innovation
happens where there's a regulatory
framework that Fosters that and um you
know it's been challenging in in the US
so um I think that's one of the biggest
things we see yeah this this past week I
was in DC advocating for sensible crypto
legislation um alongside coinbase and
and stand with crypto and last month I
was actually in Hong Kong and speaking
with legislators about sensible um
legislation for USD backed stable coins
and RW UA real world asset backed um
assets leveraging things like treasury
bills so we've kind of seen this odd
International Adoption of bringing
America based assets on chain and so
it's kind of um it feels a little bit
backwards sometimes but I definitely
think that we're heading in the right
direction um with things like fit 21 and
other stable coin legislation that's
starting to make its way through
Congress um so I think you also have
some broader kind of expertise and
experience that also lends some uh
comprehensive knowledge to the potential
growth that verified USD Foundation can
bring in terms of stable coins not only
in the US and in the rest of the world
so I'm just curious to hear in the
quarter uh that you've spent about the
quarter of time that you spent at the
foundation how has some of your other
executive advisory work with entities
like Ledger node 40 and focal how has
that kind of enabled you to progress the
vision for bringing an omni chain stable
coin backed by rwas how does that kind
of Empower you in your position now yeah
well well first of all I I love the tech
I you know I'm not formally an engineer
by training although I've taken some
some math and computer science along the
way but I just love to to dive in you
know one of my recent roles was at at
alaran so working with Professor Michael
who you know invent was one of the
inventors of zero knowledge cryptography
was just amazing um you working with
companies like Ledger you know really
getting into the hardware side of how do
you store these keys and you know how
can you attack and so forth um it's
really fastc I love spending time with
that I actually have to check myself
sometimes I'll be on diligence calls or
I'm supposed to be doing something like
business oriented and I'll just I'll
just go down the rabbit hole on how the
tech works and then we'll get to the end
of the hour and I haven't asked like the
you know the you know the more kind of
business and strategy questions which
are which are of course important and
what I'm I'm supposed to be there for in
many cases but I I love the tech side
and spending time with this um you know
you just kind of get to absorb the uh
the different approaches that are out
there uh there's so much that we're
seeing now what I really like about the
the verified USD Foundation is that
we're an omni chain stable coin so uh
we're launching on five chains uh ebm
compatible chains um you know l1s
including ethereum mainnet um B c um
Avalanche but then also l2s like arbitr
and optimism and and going to many more
so I really love that I don't have to
kind of pick the winning technology
because I don't think there's going to
be one chain to rule them all you know I
think um that uh you know different
chains will have different different
approaches and being able to spend time
um you know throughout my career across
uh you know different different players
working on different things you know
helps give me that that perspective and
at least kind of know how are we going
to integrate with chain XYZ um and and
and how does this work so so that's been
really encouraging and uh you know
certainly layer zero who is our
technology partner has uh has a lot of
amazingly Innovative Technologies that
uh you know we're putting to work here
and uh excited to be partnered with them
in Matrix port to to Spore our growth
yeah that's very exciting and and you do
have kind of the the previous role you
were filling was CFO for alaran so it
really is interesting to kind of have
this um engagement and experience with
uh being being in this type of role for
a decentralized protocol I am curious to
hear what are your perspectives on the
scale of centralization to
decentralization where do you view the
verified USD Foundation being um and
maybe we can use as context maybe like
tether being the most centralized to uh
the now defunct uh Luna Tera us being
the most decentralized where do you view
verified USD Foundation on that scale
yeah well you know there's a couple
there's a whole number of issues that
are kind of wrapped up in that in that
in that whole comparison there um
centralization decentralization just
being one of them um but you know to
answer your question directly uh you
know the verified USD Foundation is an
entity but we're a foundation so we're
not a private entity we're a foundation
we exist to sort of Steward the the
ecosystem and we actually don't mint the
usdv token ourselves what we do is we
allow other
what we call verified mentors in many
cases these are centralized exchanges
like bitg or decentralized protocols
like sushi swap or curb uh or OTC desks
like wintermute to uh actually become
mentors themselves and they're the ones
that bring usdv into existence they're
the ones that post the collateral uh
which is uh essentially short-term
treasury bills and treasury repos and uh
when they mint these tokens uh the usdv
is completely fungible whether it's
minted by winter mute or curve or
whoever uh but we keep track of who
minted what uh through something called
color trace and that allows us to share
the rewards on the underlying collateral
with the partners that are facilitating
the ecosystem and that's something that
is fundamentally much more decentralized
than having a single private entity
sitting at the middle and you just have
to sort of trust that entity yeah color
Trace is sounds really fascinating and
I'm really looking forward to digging
into that um but before we kind of go
into the usdv and the other work that
the verified USD Foundation is doing I
am just kind of curious to hear your
perspective I did mention earlier in our
conversation that stable coins have kind
of rose to uh the prominence on what I
view as one of the most used Assets in
the crypto space in general so I'm
curious to hear from your perspective um
you chose to work at this foundation so
clearly you have a strong opinion about
stable coins what's the broader impact
that stable coins are going to have in
the crypto and blockchain ecosystem and
maybe this is a bit of a spicy question
but do you think that they're going to
have more of a relevancy for traditional
and the next bill for traditional asset
institutions and the next wave of 1
billion users than say Bitcoin ethereum
or other Crypton native
assets yeah broader adoption is
definitely where we're headed you know
um you know I'm I'm not the person to
say is Bitcoin going to a million
dollars or or is it not or whatever
that's not you know that that that
that's not my role um but uh and I love
the people that are like bitcoin's going
to a million dollars um but you know I'm
not I'm not buying call options at a
million dollars necessarily you know but
they may make a lot of money um you know
my my perspective is really looking at
stable coins there is a role for stable
coins to play um right now we had our
soft launch we're starting on a few
centralized exchanges and decentralized
exchanges and we're growing but we're
really setting the architecture to plug
into an increasing number of chains
layer zero connects to over 40 chains
right now so we have our five launch
chains but there'll be many more to come
and we see that with the increasing
power of different blockchains l1s l2s
side chains Etc um and uh lower cost and
higher degrees of security that this is
really what's going to push stable coin
adoption generally but also crypto
broadly speaking
um you know into that next billion
people into emerging markets and so
forth so uh we're really spending a lot
of our time at the foundation thinking
about kind of the medium and longer term
which goes well beyond just CI and Defi
and you know people using this as real
money people using this as stores of
value and so forth and it's really about
enabling other partners around the world
to do this I mean there are chains that
are focused on the Vietnamese Market and
other areas and and things and you know
we're never going to become the experts
in that but our role goal is really to
enable others to catalyze that growth
and to be able to share the rewards and
upside with them yeah I think um so
you've mentioned layer zero a couple
times which is a cross chain uh
messaging solution so um just curious to
hear from uh the verified USD
foundation's perspective why did your
team opt to partner with a an entity
that's specializing in cross-chain
messaging as opposed to building the
sort of infrastructure internally yeah I
think there there are two key
technologies that we license from layer
zero um one is the Omni chain fungible
token standard uh which allows us to
Mint natively on the first five chains
but then on on on many others um so the
mint burn functionality is not
controlled by a centralized institution
it is really baked into the smart
contract of the code itself um and then
the other one as as as you mentioned
already is color Trace um which allows
us to track who minted what tokens um
and be able to share Rewards across the
ecosystem so um you know layer zero is a
you know phenomenal technical team um
I've known Brian pelo and the team uh
for a number of years I was a reviewer
on their original white paper and um you
know really uh very early on I saw that
like these guys were the real deal I
remember being you know this is was when
I was living in Paris and I was in at a
at a bank in Switzerland and I was
supposed to fly home to my family in
Paris and I heard that Brian pelo and
Raz were coming to this conference in
Lisbon I'm just like I got to meet with
them I'd had a bunch of conversations
I'd read the white paper now I was like
okay they're they're on continent I just
got to be there I called my wife I'm
like I got I got to get there these guys
are the real deal um and have kind of
stayed in touch followed them for the
past few years and when the opportunity
came to collaborate on this it was it
was something I couldn't turn down um
certainly I'd heard a lot about Matrix
Port before um and you know bringing
them into the partners those are kind of
the two key um contributors to the uh
the foundation right now um that that
were kind of you know got us uh you know
with the the initial technology and uh
now we have uh you know 25 plus uh
Partners uh that are our launch partners
and mentors with us right now yeah layer
zero is kind of um the goto right now
their their team has really built out a
lot of strong infrastructure so it's
kind of cool to hear that you have this
very personal sort of relationship with
with the entity and and alongside you
know just using a really good
infrastructure for for what you guys are
building with usdv
um so what backs usdv what are the real
world assets that you guys are looking
into um and maybe you can talk about the
current assets that are backing the
stable coin and also you don't have to
necessarily say which ones are next but
what are the types of real world assets
that you and your team are examining
when um leveraging uh you know these new
stable coins um and what is kind of
securing them or ensuring that there is
something that they can be redeemed for
yeah absolutely so um USB's uh role in
the ecosystem is we we facilitate this
we set the standards for what we will
accept as collateral and the initial
collateral that we accept is short-term
treasury bills and extremely short-term
actually overnight um treasury
agreements called repo agreements and uh
those are in the form of a token that is
issued by a matrix board affiliate
called stbt short-term treasury bill
this is a interest bearing security um
it is only available to non us kyc
investors that go through a robust
compliance process um but uh it's it's a
real world asset there's you know over
100 million in circulation now and uh
verified mentors can uh acquire or
purchase the stbt uh treasury bill
tokens lock it up in our smart contract
on ethereum mainnet and then issue usdv
backed one for one in their respective
colors so this is something where
anybody can go on to Dune or our smart
contract at any time and they can see
exactly what is standing behind this so
you know it's not just hey we got an
annual audit or something like that
saying what we what we had in the bank
this is something that participants can
go in real time and essentially the
collateral is on chain so as we look
towards the future uh we certainly could
look at and we we intend to look at
other forms of collateral that are um
short-term treasuries essentially um you
know we're we're not at this point
looking at extending the the risk
profile um further on the yield curve or
with any other assets besides that but
there there could be other other tokens
in time there could be other things that
we look at in time um but that's uh
that's where we started we think it's
really critical for trust and
transparency to be able to happen um I'm
not a macro expert but I do remember in
2020 there was an issue with liquidity
and repo markets so is what are the kind
of defense mechanisms that the
foundation has taken against maybe
short-term volatility in these markets
and is the short-term t- Bill markets
kind of enough to act as a hedge against
any short-term volatility in the repo
markets yeah you know right now we have
a mix of of assets uh that are that are
in there and uh there's a Redemption
process there's a Redemption Q um and uh
you know I think some of the way that it
works is actually just in the interest
rate you if you look at stbt you'll see
that the the rate does fluctuate a bit
on a day-to-day basis it it rebases
daily um but you can get in and out of
it even on weekends um and that's
something that uh by focused where we
are on the you know very short end of
the curve uh there's just a a lot of
liquidity out there so uh even if there
were a huge amount of redemptions in a
short period of time um you know uh you
know there there wouldn't be any issue
with meeting those and from the the usdv
user perspective um you know there
there's a very liquid market for usdv to
other stable coins usdv into stbt if
you're again if you're on the white list
and kyc to be able to own stbt um so
that's something that's uh that's really
critically important users need to know
that they can get their usdv to any
chain that they want uh and that they
can get in and out of that whether to
the underlying asset or to to other
digital assets yeah and I definitely
want to dig into um the different types
of chains that that are interoperable
with usdv but uh just kind of one more
higher
kind of 10,000 foot level question um I
I just kind of want to get a a baseline
of your perspective so there are Fiat
back stable coins Crypt back stable
coins and over collateralized stable
coins and each of them have kind of had
their uh time in the spotlight um and
I've also kind of faced adversity so
what is your perspective of these
classes of stable coins is there a role
for each and um I'm sure I can probably
deduce what your answer will be but what
is the the USD Foundation view as the
most instrumental yeah I mean we're
clear on what our role is in the
ecosystem is that that we are the issuer
of a highly liquid fully backed stable
coin with onchain transparency and you
know underline you know treasury Repose
and so forth so uh participants that
Acquire usdv or use usdv uh that that's
what they're getting uh there's
definitely a role for others as well I
think you'll see that fra actually is
one of our launch Partners so many of
these other types of uh you know stable
coins that have other backing that is
not just treasury bills or it's over
collateralized or it's multiple
different asset classes and we're very
excited to partner with them and have
usdv be part of the asset base that
they're working with um so that's one of
the things that we're doing with with
fra but there you know there there are
other things that you can do with these
other things you know whether you look
at uh you know make or down and die you
know they do fulfill a bit of a
different role in a particular defi
ecosystem um one that you know certainly
can be quite valid for users that uh you
know are looking for that so so we view
them more as collaborators um than uh
you know than kind of competition or
anything like that that's really
interesting do you kind of get the sense
that uh the various different types of
stable coin projects are viewing one
another as collaborators rather than
competition uh or is this just a
phenomena I've experienced with a few of
the partners that you're working with
that aren't necessarily doing rwa backed
Stables yeah I mean you know in the
blockchain space and in the software
Internet space generally you know
protocols should should be able to talk
to each other right so I think everyone
has an an interest in facilitating
smooth rails and communication and um
you know with especially with the
examples that I mentioned uh we
definitely view them as collaborators uh
rather than than anything else um you
know part of what the verified USD
Foundation is again we're not we're not
a private entity that is looking to you
know capture and make you know make a
lot of money we don't have shareholders
we don't pay dividends or anything like
that we're all about facilitating the
ecosystem and and you know what we view
as success is getting more mentors
signed up uh through our onboarding
process um and getting them to to be
issuing in in areas that uh that they
have their respective strengths um so
it's really something that is all about
collaboration and and community and we
see that as much you know very aligned
with the the whole ethos of our space
and where is the verified USD Foundation
kind of based out of what's the
jurisdiction that the team chose to um
operate under yeah so we're based out of
Cayman so um I head down to Cayman um
you know periodically multiple times
throughout the year um and there there's
actually quite a quite a good ecosystem
there um in terms of not just the
financial space but also in terms of the
technology space uh that's there um it's
it's one of the areas where you do have
a clear clear regulatory framework um
you do have good relations with uh with
countries around the world including
Asia and Europe and and elsewhere um so
uh it's one where we do have a local
team down there we have local Partners
um and uh you know it's it's just a good
place to
be so with usdv there are three
different types of contributors to the
ecosystem there's the verified Mentor
the operator and the liquidity provider
can you expand a little bit more on the
rules of each and how they participate
within the usdv umbrella yeah absolutely
um so the verified mure are you know
those are the ones where there's the
largest number of them and where we
expect the largest amount of growth so
these are initially CI and defi
protocols in some cases OTC desks as
well um and eventually as we get into
this more as a as payments and so forth
we expect other fexs and and and other
entities that can that can do that um uh
so those are the ones that um acquire
stbt are able to lock that up and mint
usdv in their own color and receive
receive rewards based time um you know
the operator uh right now we work very
closely with a matrix Port affiliate uh
as as part of that uh you know they're
bringing a lot of their skills uh to the
table and that makes sense because at
least right now where we're starting
with stbt um you know everyone that is a
verified Mentor has to First go through
Matrix port's own compliance process
before they go through our compliance
process so it's really something that we
take uh take quite seriously um and then
liquidity provider uh you know that role
is about making sure that especially in
the early days here where we're
launching we're just lighting up new
chains and so forth we really want users
to be able to make sure that they can
get in and out of uh the usdv with with
very tight spreads not to say that um
we're going to have liquidity providers
that that are super active on every
single decks on every single chain all
the time but there will be certain
points where there is a lot of liquidity
uh you know right now if you just look
at the the volumes it's a bitg is the is
the biggest centralized exchange and
then curve is uh is the biggest uh
decentralized exchange for for getting
in and out of uh usdv but there are
others as well and and you know we we
want to be uh making sure that that
users have the confidence that uh they
can get in and out of the asset so one
of the things I've really enjoyed about
or not enjoyed but respected about like
the Bitcoin protocol development is is
that it is so slow to upgrade and and I
believe that's a fe a feature not a bug
so what does usdv expansion look like is
are you guys slowly picking which
Partners which exchanges both both decks
and centralized that you're working with
what's kind of the ethos or the
philosophy for for expanding um the
growth and kind of use of usdv sure uh
so we called uh our launch last month a
soft launch you know and and there's a
reason for that because it it does take
time you know it takes time to light up
more chains it takes time to get history
uh it takes time to get oracles you know
a lot of times there's just fixed
requirements of you need a certain
number of weeks of data at certain
volumes in order to do this so it is an
incremental process you know launching a
stable coin across you know even five
chains which we're doing now is not a
not an insignificant fee so it it is
something that you know you must proceed
incrementally if you're G if you're
going to do it well um so you know
without kind of pre-releases certain
things I'd say you know to look at where
we're going to go to start you know look
at the 40 plus change where layer zero
is right now you know so those are the
chains where layer zero is already
connected um and incrementally it's a
lot easier to add those um certainly
ones that are evm it's it's much more of
a standard Playbook to do that um so
it's just sort of a a lower bar from a
technical perspective to get on there um
but there's plenty of other non-m chains
that layer zero is connected to and ones
that we're talking to about them
connecting to um you know over the
coming months so so that's really key um
you know we are pretty actively in
discussions with a number of different
major dexes and centralized exchanges uh
again some of these is just a question
they say Hey you need you need a certain
amount of time at a certain amount of
volume and so forth and then we can list
you or partner with you or so forth um
but the partnership is pretty standard
you know every every Mentor essentially
has the same type of minting agreement
uh with the foundation so that makes
negotiation relative easy um and then
you know a lot of times we'll we'll
collaborate you know you'll look at uh
you know especially some of these dexes
there's some pretty attractive initial
incentives out there so the foundation
can be involved in uh you know in
supporting emissions and so forth early
on in the process which you know is
driving some is kind of naturally what
drives uh some of the use in these
things but as we get out of the first
few months um you know I think you'll
see much more organic growth um and some
some pretty Innovative use cases as we
expand to chains beyond the first five
yeah and in the first month month and a
half of the soft launch um how much
liquidity has usdv been able to uh acrew
or release into the wild yeah so as of
today let me see I think we've got like
17 million I think uh right there a
little over 17 million of usdb uh usdb
issued uh which is essentially locked uh
short-term treasury bill the stbt token
itself which is kind of the the broader
asset base is about 108 million I
believe as of uh as of today so you know
we you know I think you should probably
expect both of those to to be going up
uh over time again it's a soft launch
it's incremental you know you need to do
this but but these things build on on
itself you know as we get oracles lit up
as we get new D5 protocols involved as
we get more volumes then you know that's
uh that's what we see but but ultimately
this the number to focus on is not so
much uh you know where we are right now
in terms of five chain and 17 whatever
million but really how is the
architecture built for scale and to
enable others to drive the growth of
this ecosystem and that's what we're
really focused on that's that's a really
interesting concept you just brought up
scaling so what are some of the scaling
um pitfalls that verified USD Foundation
is is really studying and observing to
ensure that usdv doesn't fall into those
kind of traps yeah well compliance is
one uh I think um you know one of the
things that was was really important
throughout the interview process and so
forth to come on here was um you know
the fact that I had worked and and in
fact Cambridge blockchain itself was
really its core a compliance company it
was about sharing kyc data and so forth
um and while usdv itself is a
permissionless token you know anybody
can can buy or sell or transfer it um
you know stbt itself in the process of
becoming a verified Mentor uh does go
through a fairly uh rigorous compliance
process including enhanced due diligence
and and onchain transaction checks and
and and so forth so um you know was was
really happy and that was really
important to me to make sure that that
that we're doing compliance right um and
then it's all about the growth path and
and setting things up I mean right now
there's a lot of draft stable coin
regulation on the books but you know
that it was like in the bill form but
it's not law yet so you know what we're
doing now is really benchmarking against
this draft legislation that that is out
there you know where are we what what
are the laws saying um how how do we
think about that um and you know you
you've certainly seen other stable coins
get into issues whether in the US or or
elsewhere so that's something that um
you know we we pay a lot of attention to
we we really try to do things the right
way and um you know that that's
important for our user base as well you
know our user base doesn't want us to be
doing things that are you know in in an
area that is you know putting the you
know putting putting the protocol or or
some of our key Partners at risk yeah do
you have a sense for um what your
geographic region your user base is
currently I know that you know maybe you
not be you might not be able to
determine these things with only six to
eight weeks of data under your belt but
kind of at the onset do you do you just
kind of have a a good understanding of
who your users are by geographic region
yeah so um you know what's really
fascinating is that um we're able to
Leverage The the relationships of both
layer zero which is incredibly strong in
the the X community and um and across
cross change there as well as Matrix
Port which um you know has a lot of
relationships obviously they're they're
headquartered in Singapore have
activities in Hong Kong Thailand other
places um so a lot of centralized
exchanges especially ones that have um
you know more of an Asian footprint um
so so that's kind of where we're
starting I mean it's the centralized and
decentralized exchanges um and you know
the respective user bases which you know
curve might be different than bitg and
so forth and you can kind of yeah I'd
say we're broadly representative of uh
you know what what our individual
mentors are um but when we look at the
growth uh of this and especially what
the foundation is really focused on um
is that Medium to long-term road map and
that is really using usdv not just as
sort of an intermediary token to get out
of one crypto or another to pick up an
interesting yield opportunity but really
using this as money uh in two weeks I'm
going down to Buenos Aras and going to
be um you know meeting with a number of
Market participants there and you know
some of these things it's an incredibly
Dynamic Market down there I mean this is
this is a market that 10% of the whole
US currency in the world the physical
currency is in Argentina you know people
buy houses with Stacks of100 bills and
um you know stable coins are are a real
thing and people are this is where in
the wild people are using stable coins
as part of their everyday life and it is
essential uh to to what they're doing so
that's you know that's as an example of
of markets where we want to be you know
we want to figure out the right Partners
we want to figure out the right chains
figure out the right pieces to to do
that and you know the incoming president
and so forth I think is gonna um he's
got a lot on his plate for sure um but
uh you know these are market dynamics
and and frankly opportunities that are
unlike others in the world so I would
say emerging markets and especially
economies where you know there may be
some limitations with uh you know the
domestic currency whether through
inflation or you know limitations on the
ventional banking sector um I think
provides some unique opportunities for
stable coins generally and usdv in
particular yeah there was just a a major
um ethereum developers conference that
took place in Turkey either last week or
the week before and in listening to some
of the podcasts one of the most um
interesting Concepts that stuck out to
me is that there was an equally easy way
to spend the local currency as there was
to spend tether on the Tron Network so
we're really starting to see how um
us-backed stable coins are becoming
prominent in um emerging economies uh
and on networks that people you know
your your average blockchain maximalists
wouldn't have ever suspected so you guys
mentioned that there are multiple
different networks that usdv lives on
and that they're largely determined um
by who you can connect with via layer
zero but the verified us Foundation did
opt to build on ethereum optimism BSE
arbitrum and Avalanche first how did the
team arrive at these first five networks
to build on top of sure um so they're
all evm compatible so um you know when
we look at the you know expanding to
Marginal chain ABCD EFG you know evm
chains that are already connected to
layer zero just have a lower bar to
connect to than others a lot of it's
partner driven you know if you look at
our partner list um in terms of uh you
know curve Sushi swap uh you know wombat
Maverick uh Trader Joe belome um you
know a lot of this were driven by places
where we were able to get good
partnership relationships and we want to
be on the chains where they're they're
active um so that that was that was
where it is but there's also other
opportunities looking at and there are
you know you mentioned um you know Tron
and turkey but um there are other uh
other chains that are you know have kind
of surprising level of adoptions or even
on that are really hey this one is kind
of known in Southeast Asia and not so
much Beyond there but hey if they meet
the right specs and they can get through
layer zero Security review and so forth
you know those are things that we will
uh we will absolutely look at but but it
you know key are the partnership
discussions right I mean chain a versus
chain B you know provided that they have
the adequate security um and and we're
able to do it in a compliant way uh you
know ones where you know there's there's
more Partners earlier on or or ones that
are going to be be earlier in the queue
I'm I'm pretty sure I I have a sense for
for what your answer is going to be but
I kind of want to offer up the softball
for a nice sound bite uh can a Fiat back
staple coin be truly decentralized if
it's only beholden to evm based
networks so I guess I'll my non-answer
to that is that we don't intend to be
just sticking with evm based networks
you know um we're on evm based networks
today you know and and certainly
incrementally it's easier to add but you
know look at those 40 chains um that
that layer zeros on you'll see a lot of
non- EVMS there and uh there's a lot of
others that are in the works so um yeah
so that's uh that's there I mean you
know hey obviously there's some degree
of standardization around EVMS and they
talk to each other and it's easier to
transfer assets from one thing and the
address formats are the same and so
forth um and and and that can be a good
thing um but there's also limitations
and there's things that uh the move
based networks have that others uh don't
have or ones that are tied to a
particular social media app or ones that
have you know other other type of things
um so yeah you know we we have no
intention of doing of doing that but you
know hey if you look at where where
standardization is evm is just kind of
what uh what the ecosystem has has to
date so um that has certain advantages
and you know there there are certainly
trade-offs that come with that as well
yeah I um I make my bread and butter by
covering uh the Neo blockchain ecosystem
on a day-to-day basis so I've been knee
in a non- evm ecosystem since 2018 so
I'm always just fascinated hear insights
that that others have as it comes to um
the robustness of potential uses outside
of evm so I appreciate the and there are
yeah there are lots of um kind of evm on
nonm chains or ones that are are doing
that or or you know fulfilling
interoperability I mean ultimately it's
all software it should be able to talk
to each other um you know if you can do
something in a turning complete language
and solidity you should be able to do it
in you know you should be able to do it
and move ultimately may take some time
and effort to get there um but uh you
know that's uh that's that's the world
we live in yeah and so we we haven't
really gotten to this yet and I feel
like it might be a disservice to the
listeners because you have mentioned
these colors and when a mentor mints
that there's a color-based system so can
you just share a little bit more about
the color Trace algorithm and what that
is and how it's used to help identify
stable coin mentors absolutely so this
is a uh kind of a fundament
mathematical challenge that has existed
um for for for some time um and and the
issue is is as follows um if you want to
have multiple different colors of a
token um and you want to keep track of
who has what color naturally if you're
going to be doing that if you have a
wallet and you get some tokens from
curve and other ones from uh bited and
other ones from Winter mute you know
you've got to keep track of what could
be fungible tokens but you've got three
separate colors in your wallet and then
you send uh you know you send a payment
to Alice and then um you know Alice has
some colors in her token and then she
sends one to Bob and you know you
rapidly get to a situation where you can
have an exponential increase in the
number of colors in any particular
wallet and uh just practically thinking
about how do you deal with that with
metamask or whatever um you know it's
more of a fundamental mathematical
problem of how do you keep track of this
exponentially increasing complexity so
added core color Trace uh really solves
that by actually not keeping track of
colors in a every wallet so you don't
end up with a wallet that has a hundred
different colors in it what you end up
with is your wallet uh takes the color
of the first usdv that you get and then
in most cases uh it just keeps that as
its color so if you have um you know 100
usdv from curve and I send you 10 usdv
that is the sushi swap color um you know
those 10 usdv will be recolored as the
curve color but there will be an error
uh you know a Delta variable um that the
system keeps track of that even though
you're only holding one color in your
wallet um you know we're keeping track
at a systemwide level of how many curve
and Sushi Swap and velodrome and so
forth tokens are outstanding and what
that allows is ultimately what the
mentors really care about is when they
go to claim their rewards which they do
on a poll basis and they can do
periodically they want to know that
they're going to be able to get rewards
based on the net amount of their color
that they issued into the ecosystem and
you can look at the white paper there's
some um some fancy math behind there um
but uh you know that's really one of the
core elements of this and um you know
that's what we that's what we licens
from layer zero and are the first coin
to to utilize here yeah so um I think
it's it's a fascinating concept and um
I'm just wondering if like let's say I
am a defi maximalist I'm a
decentralization maximalist and I don't
want to touch any staple coins that were
minted by a centralized entity does this
color Trace algorithm the color Trace
methodology does that allow me to only
acquire usdv that was minted by curve or
by Sushi or by another
decentralized um entity or are we are we
not there is that just not a way that um
the foundation envisions that usdv is
accessible we certainly all the data are
there right um so the the underlying
data of how much is outstanding how much
is on chain ABC how much is from color
one 123 um and the colors are numbers by
the way they're not you know blue and
perrywinkle and whatever you know um
that that might be more more interesting
you've got a very colorful sweater on
there you know I'm just thinking of
colors here is Christmas or holiday
sweater um so yeah I mean you can you
can track that and I'd say probably the
best way you can formally have only
color X in your token or color three um
if you're getting your tokens originally
from that and and largely speaking your
wallet will stay that color you know um
but um you know practically speaking I
think you want to think through they're
they're fungible right this is a
fungible token so um you know one can be
exchanged for for the other um and you
know I'd say probably the best way to
promote decentralized you know hey if
you don't want to deal with any
centralized exchanges then just trade on
dex's that's probably um you know a more
a more effective way to put your money
to work than to to be looking at hey
what is the particular color in my
wallet um which is more of a system
parameter used by the mentors for
tracking rewards got it got it so like
let's say I have more of the um Sushi
swap color in my wallet you said that as
the user you would actually only
exclusively have that you would you only
have one color in your wallet at any
time you know when when payment is sent
from Alice to Bob um that usdv is
recolored into whatever Alice's whatever
Bob's wallet is okay and when it's
recolored does that mean that the usdv
is sent from that color Network or is it
just on paper it just says okay now this
user's wallet has mostly Sushi swap so
now when they sell or stake or whatever
it will only be done on Sushi swap no no
it has no impact for the user it's
really only for the mentors and it's
really a sort of an accounting mechanism
um you can think of it as sort of like
an accounting memo or something like
that that is used at a systemwide level
to track who minted what um and the
thing that's really important for users
is not necessarily the details behind
that but that it allows us to be more
decentralized it allows you to have not
just in fact the verified USD Foundation
is not a mentor we don't we don't Min
usdv we enable others to do and um you
know provided they can meet the
appropriate compliance checks and so
forth um you know we're we're happy to
extend to to more chains and more
mentors and more geographies and so
forth so it really fits with the
underlying ethos I mean that's the thing
that end users should take away and we
believe that ultimately it promotes a
healthier ecosystem you know this our
ecosystem is going to grow and become
more scalable if everyone that's
bringing users in is able to share the
rewards of the underlying assets as
opposed to just you know a couple you
know big centralized private entities
and what what are the rewards that a
token minor gets did they receive
Network fees from users who swap those
tokens do they receive Network fees from
users who uh mint the minted tokens um
how how exactly do they acrew kind of
rewards yeah the the underlying rewards
are based on the stbt yields so you can
go to uh Matrix Sports homepage see um
stbt you know most days at least in this
interest rate environment it's yielding
kind of the high 4 per low 5 per again
it depends a little bit on a day-to-day
basis and um you know those underlying
rewards are split with the mentor as
well as then uh you know the network
operator and so forth to cover the the
cost of maintaining the network there's
certainly other ways that mentors can
also make money generally you know on
Exchange fees and transfers fees and so
forth but that's not really at the usdb
protocol level that would be on the
particular decks and so forth and there
as you know there's all kinds of
different rewards and many different
types of tokens and so forth and that's
really um you know something that is is
determined outside of you know strictly
the scope with the usdv and when a
mentor mints a usdv token do they have
to distribute it into circulation or can
they just kind of hold it in their own
yeah sure they can certainly hold it uh
they can hold it themselves they can
distribute it and the main thing is that
when they do distribute it you know
provided that it's not immediately
redeemed or or picked up by another
Mentor that uh that that does something
with it you know they'll continue to
earn uh a share of the underlying um you
know the underlying yield from the
collateral awesome um kind of wrapping
up the conversation I want to zoom back
out and and look at next steps so uh
maybe this is kind of a too
philosophical a question to answer with
a few minutes left but um what is the
verified USD foundation's vision for
establishing better connections between
centralized entities CI and defi yeah um
well we think both are are really
critical um the the centralized entities
are often the ones that are regulated
virtual asset service providers they're
the ones that are kind of on the front
lines of the Fiat to crypto exchange
they are often the ones that uh have
more of a regulatory burden uh on them
or regulatory obligation I don't want to
you know imply I think you know these
are these are these are good things that
they're having to to to abide by um and
uh you know that's critical you know I
think you you need to go through those
entities to exchange your underlying
Fiat into the digital world and there's
also a lot of unique opportunities that
you see in in the deck space in the
decentralized finance space and and so
forth um that uh you know is is
something that you know you need to get
there to begin with um in order to do
that so so we want to partner with both
um you know it's hard for me to say
which one is going to have the the
biggest color or whatever but I think we
want to we want to have both and I'd say
the biggest thing is not necessarily sex
or decks um but uh really where um where
this can go in terms of using stable
coins generally and usdv in particular
as real money as a store of value in in
terms of buying uh you know buying real
world assets with it um and you you know
using this so uh you know we'll see how
things go in Argentina uh in in the next
week and um you know looking at at other
markets around the world as well but um
you know excited to to have strong
growth uh with our initial Partners our
initial chains um but uh you know expect
to see a lot more on the decentral calz
and centralized Exchange in the near
term and over the slightly longer term
um you know a lot of growth uh in
payments emerging markets and and other
areas that that have a lot of excitement
too are are there any kind of
significant challenges that you
anticipate the foundation might run into
as you guys continue to scale at an
international and also a technological
sort of um yes um you know I think you
you know in this if you've been around
the space long enough you you know you
need to expect the unexpected I mean
just in the last year I mean I've had to
deal with the implosion of Silicon
Valley Bank and we had a run in with
some North Korean hackers and one of our
partners and you know uh regulatory
challenges and and and everything um you
know obviously there's been FTX and
taluna and and uh you know um you know
cz's issues that he's had to deal with
and so forth so um you know but these
are the industry has has been able to
roll with it um and uh you know I think
you develop a thick skin working here
and uh having been around the block a
few times I think we're we're ready for
it um and you know we're excited to work
with different chains work with
different Regulators uh work with good
partners um and uh and take this forward
so uh we're ready for whatever comes
next well you heard it here folks this
team is is ready to double down and
build uh Matthew if someone's interested
in keeping up to date with you or what
the very ified USD Foundation is working
on what are the best ways that they can
do so yeah uh usdv domoney is our is our
main site you can find links there to uh
to Twitter white papers um you know or
gitbook other other areas so yeah usdv
domoney is the best place to start
awesome well Matthew thank you so much
for your time today it was fascinating
to have this conversation flew by very
quickly um really looking forward to
following the progress that that usdv
makes and the verified USD Foundation
makes in the future so just want to
thank you so much for coming on the
smart economy podcast to to share this
really Innovative and cool project
you're working on all right thank you
very much Dylan I hope to be back soon
cheers well what did you think of that
conversation I thought it was
fascinating to hear Matthew's insights
from building in blockchain since
2015 and how he aims to Foster the
growth of usdv in various different
geographic regions across the globe it
was also fascinating to learn more about
the relationships that Matthew has built
inside of infrastructure networks and
how that's helped the verified USD
Foundation grow the footprint of the
usdv stablecoin and I really enjoyed
learning how the yields that real world
assets distribute and I really enjoyed
learning more about how the real world
assets determine the yield that usdv
mentors earn to keep up to date with the
smarte economy podcast head over to
www.smart eony podcast.com
and if you like the guests we've had on
the show please consider showing support
for the show by rating and reviewing
these episodes each episode that gets
rated or reviewed really helps put us in
front of other listeners so they can
discover the guests that we've had on
the podcast and of course if you're a
Neo token holder please don't hesitate
for voting for Neo news today as your
Council representative we've proudly
been serving the Neo ecosystem since
2017 and we'll continue to do so by
using portions of our Council Rewards to
invest directly back into ecosystem
growth initiatives with all that said
thank you so much for taking the time to
listen to the smart economy podcast and
we look forward to catching you next
time